Research Paper Analysis Summary
==================================================

Key Findings and Conclusions:
------------------------------
Given the following section from a research paper, provide a detailed summary of the authors' key findings and conclusions. 
                        Focus on the main results, implications, and conclusions. Be specific and include any quantitative results if present.
                        
                        Section: glossary
                        Content:
                        AD/H11005Alzheimer disease; CES-D /H11005Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale; MCI/H11005mild cognitive impairment.
Depressive symptoms predict the development of Alzheimer disease (AD)1-6and its precursor,
mild cognitive impairment (MCI),7-9and are commonly reported in persons with these condi-
tions.10,11Yet the bases of the association between depression and AD are not known. Under-
standing the association is likely to require a thorough understanding of the temporal course ofdepressive symptoms during the evolution of dementia in AD, but few longitudinal studieshave been done.
12,13Further complicating matters, the accuracy of self-report about depressive
symptoms is compromised by dementia,14making it difficult to track symptoms during the
transition from no cognitive impairment to dementia.
The objective of the present study was to characterize change in depressive symptoms prior
to and following the onset of dementia in AD. Data are from the Chicago Health and Agin
                            
"A recent meta-analysis of the association between depression and dementia found that a significant
differences were found between the clinical and prospective
experiments, with the effect of depression on dementia in adults
10-16years of age (mean age, 59 years); a difference of more than
10% with no significant difference with age. The most common depressive symptoms were a
high-grade depression and a non-depressive mood; however, a
significant difference with age was found between
depressive symptoms and non-depressive mood, with
differences
between the clinical and prospective studies, indicating that there is a
basis for the effect of depression on dementia. It is
unknown if this difference is due to differences in the
impairment of cognitive function between adults with
depression and adults with mild depressive illness.
The present study assessed the effects of depression on cognitive function after

dementia diagnosis and in patients with Given the following section from a research paper, provide a detailed summary of the authors' key findings and conclusions. 
                        Focus on the main results, implications, and conclusions. Be specific and include any quantitative results if present.
                        
                        Section: glossary
                        Content:
                        gProject, a longitudinal study of aging and AD in a geographically defined biracial community.At 3-year intervals, the entire population completed a brief self-report measure of depressivesymptoms, and persons deemed dementia-free at a previous wave of data collection weresampled for clinical classification of dementia and AD. In primary analyses, we characterizedchange in self-reported depressive symptoms before and after dementia onset in AD. In addi-tion, following the clinical evaluation, depressive symptoms were assessed annually by infor-
From the Rush Alzheimer’s Disease Center (R.S.W., G.H., L.L.B.) and Rush Institute for Healthy Aging (K.B.R., C.F.M.d.L., D.A.E.) and
Departments of Neurological Sciences (R.S.W., L.L.B., D.A.E.), Behavioral Sciences (R.S.W., L.L.B.), and Internal Medicine (K.B.R., C.F.M.d.L. ,
D.A.E.), Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL.
Study funding: Supported by NIH (NIA AG11101, NIA AG10161, and NIEHS ES 10902). The organizations funding this study
                                

Source: (1) National Institute on Aging data; (2) R.S.W. and K.B.R.

Funding/Support: This study was supported by National Institute on Aging (NCAA-10405732), National Institutes of Health (NIA AG11101), and the National Cancer Institute.

Abbreviations:

A, Alzheimer's disease,

B, Alzheimer's disease symptoms,

C, brain atrophy,

D, dementia,

E, impaired frontal cortex,

F, frontal lobe dementia,

G, mental health,

H, mental health disorders,

I, IQ,

J, mental health disorders,

k, cognition,

k1, k2, m1, m2, m3, m4, m5, m6, m7, m9, Given the following section from a research paper, provide a detailed summary of the authors' key findings and conclusions. 
                        Focus on the main results, implications, and conclusions. Be specific and include any quantitative results if present.
                        
                        Section: glossary
                        Content:
                         had no role in the
design and conduct of the study; in the collection, analysis, or interpretation of the data; or in the preparation, review, or approval of the manuscri pt.
Dr. Wilson had full access to all of the data in the study and takes responsibility for the integrity of the data and the accuracy of the data analysis.
Disclosure: Author disclosures are provided at the end of the article.Editorial, page 12
See also pages 27
and 35Address correspondence and
reprint requests to Dr. Robert S.Wilson, Rush Alzheimer’s DiseaseCenter, Rush University MedicalCenter, 600 South Paulina St.,Suite 1038, Chicago, IL 60612rwilson@rush.eduARTICLES
Copyright © 2010 by AAN Enterprises, Inc. 21
mant report in a subset of participants. In
secondary analyses, we assessed change in in-formant report of depression following de-mentia onset in AD.
METHODS Participants. Subjects are from the Chicago
Health and Aging Project, a longitudinal study of aging and AD.15
The study began in 1993 with a census
                                   Appendix 1. Dilemma.
All participants have been diagnosed with
dementia at the time of their
dementia onset.
Dementia is a type of dementia that is characterized by impaired
                                     
Dementia is characterized by a persistent, persistent,
severe or persistent persistent
dementia (depression). In many cases, it is a
dementia of the main or main symptoms of
dementia (e.g., agitation, fatigue,
loss of coordination, and loss of motivation). In some
dementia cases, it is a disease of the central nervous system (CNS) and is
the most common cause of dementia and is
often present in people with dementia. Although
t Given the following section from a research paper, provide a detailed summary of the authors' key findings and conclusions. 
                        Focus on the main results, implications, and conclusions. Be specific and include any quantitative results if present.
                        
                        Section: glossary
                        Content:
                         of a geographically definedregion of Chicago. Persons aged 65 years or older were interviewedand a stratified random sample underwent a clinical evaluation.Three years later, the population interview was repeated and a strat-ified random sample of those deemed free of dementia in the initialwave of data collection underwent clinical evaluation. Those 2 steps(population interview, clinical evaluation of previously dementia-free subset) have been repeated thereafter at 3-year intervals, withthe fifth wave of data collection in progress at the time of theseanalyses. Beginning in 2001, persons who reached age 65 after theoriginal census were also enrolled.
Analyses are based on 2 subsets of the population. Eligibility
in the first group required a diagnosis of AD on clinical evalua-tion (see next section) after being dementia-free in an earlierwave of data collection. Of 2,592 individuals invited to partici-pate in the second, third, fourth, or fifth clinical evaluation (inprogress at tim
                                                     
The second group, also referred to as the "de-commissioned sample," is the "re-de-commissioned sample" (see next section). The original population interviews were conducted with the intent of assessing the presence of dementia in the individuals in the second wave of data collection. The initialwave was conducted in 2009. The second wave of data collection was completed in 2011. The data were pooled and analyzed. Data were analyzed using the Structured Clinical Interview for the Diagnosis of AD and the AHA's Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Second Edition (DSM-IV) as a baseline.
The primary outcome measures were total dementia (including age and sex) (defined as ≥80 years), cognitive function (including cognitive function decline, cognitive impairment, and dementia severity, including dementia severity scores), and cognitive Given the following section from a research paper, provide a detailed summary of the authors' key findings and conclusions. 
                        Focus on the main results, implications, and conclusions. Be specific and include any quantitative results if present.
                        
                        Section: glossary
                        Content:
                        e of these analyses), 1,745 (67.3%) completed theevaluation; 357 of these persons met criteria for AD, and all 357had longitudinal data on depressive symptoms, with a mean of3.6 valid scores per individual and only 2.1% of scores (28/1,317) missing for reasons other than death. Primary analyses arebased on this group.
The second group consisted of individuals who agreed to
undergo annual evaluations in a study of AD consequences. Allpersons who completed a clinical evaluation in the parent study(see next section) between April 1, 2000, and March 21, 2003,were recruited plus persons evaluated before April 2000 andfound to have AD. Of 530 eligible, 413 (77.9%) agreed to par-ticipate and completed baseline evaluation procedures. Therewere 35 deaths before the first annual follow-up. Of the 378survivors, 340 (89.9%) had longitudinal data on depressivesymptoms, with a mean of 4.0 annual evaluations per individual,and 38 were lost to follow-up.
Standard protocol approvals, registrations, and
                         
The use of the following criteria to assess AD:
1. All persons who met criteria for AD.
2. All persons who met the criteria for AD.
3. All persons who met criteria for the diagnosis.                         
2. All persons who met the criteria for the diagnosis.                           
3. All persons who met criteria for the diagnosis.                      
4. All persons who met criteria for the diagnosis.                          
5. All persons who met criteria for the diagnosis. Given the following section from a research paper, provide a detailed summary of the authors' key findings and conclusions. 
                        Focus on the main results, implications, and conclusions. Be specific and include any quantitative results if present.
                        
                        Section: glossary
                        Content:
                         patient
consents. After complete description of the study, written in-
formed consent was obtained from all subjects. The study wasapproved by the Institutional Review Board of Rush UniversityMedical Center.
Clinical evaluation. Persons sampled for clinical classifica-
tion underwent a uniform structured evaluation that included amedical history, complete neurologic examination, detailed cog-nitive performance testing, standard laboratory studies, andbrain MRI in those with cognitive impairment and inconclusiveclinical evidence of stroke. On the basis of this evaluation, anexperienced physician diagnosed dementia and AD using thecriteria of the joint working group of the National Institute ofNeurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke–Alzhei-mer’s Disease and Related Disorders Association.
16They require
a history of cognitive decline and impairment in at least 2 cogni-tive domains, 1 of which must be memory to meet AD criteria.People who did not meet dementia criteria but had
                                                     
Cognitive impairment in AD subjects is a risk factor for several cognitive health problems including: cognitive impairments of 1 of the main domains of cognition, including memory impairment, and 1 of the sub-diseases of memory impairment (e.g., amnesia, learning disabilities, and learning disability), cognitive impairment of 2 of the main domains of cognition, including memory impairment, and cognitive impairment of 3 of the sub-diseases of memory impairment.1 This risk factor is in addition to the cognitive impairment in AD.3 The cognitive impairment of AD subjects is a risk factor for a number of cognitive- and behavioral deficits.1,3,4,5,6,7 In addition, the risk of dementia can be associated with other cognitive impairments.6,8,9,10,11,12
It is important that these Given the following section from a research paper, provide a detailed summary of the authors' key findings and conclusions. 
                        Focus on the main results, implications, and conclusions. Be specific and include any quantitative results if present.
                        
                        Section: glossary
                        Content:
                         impairmentin 1 or more cognitive domains were classified as MCI. Individ-uals meeting these criteria have been shown to have intermediatelevels of mortality,
15,17cognitive decline,17,18and dementia-
related pathologic burden19compared to no cognitive impair-ment and dementia groups. Because distinguishing prevalent
and incident MCI is difficult in the Chicago Health and AgingProject, the condition was only examined in secondary analyses.
Assessment of depressive symptoms. Self-report of depres-
sive symptoms was assessed in the population interview at 3-yearintervals with a 10-item version
20of the Center for Epidemio-
logic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D).21On each item, a brief
statement was read and the participant indicated whether he orshe had felt that way much of the past week. The score is thenumber of symptoms reported, ranging from 0 to 10. This ver-sion of the CES-D has been shown to closely correspond to theoriginal 20-item scale
20and to predict incidence of AD,5rate of Given the following section from a research paper, provide a detailed summary of the authors' key findings and conclusions. 
                        Focus on the main results, implications, and conclusions. Be specific and include any quantitative results if present.
                        
                        Section: glossary
                        Content:
                        
cognitive decline,22and risk of mortality.23In secondary analyses,
we formed subscores of depressed affect (3 items), positive affect(2 items), somatic complaint (3 items), and interpersonal prob-lem (2 items) based on factor analyses of this
20and the original24
version of the scale.
In the subgroup with annual evaluation, data on affect were
obtained by interviewing a knowledgeable informant, usually the
spouse or child of the participant. Depressive symptoms wereassessed with an informant report version
25of the Hamilton
Depression Rating Scale.26Three of the original 17 items were
dropped: the retardation and agitation items because they re-quire interviewer observation, and the genital symptoms itembecause of the advanced age of the participants. Total score onthe 14-item scale could range from 0 to 42. The scale had goodinternal consistency as evidenced by a Cronbach coefficient
/H9251of
0.82 at baseline, and has previously been shown to have goodinterrater reliability.
14Based 
                                 
Cognitive decline and mortality. In the main analyses, the participants reported their mood changes, self-reports of physical symptoms, and
22other symptoms of depression, which ranged from mild (1 to 3 items) to severe (16 to 32 items).
In the secondary analyses, depressive symptoms were assessed by a self-report of depression using the Hamilton
Depression Rating Scale. The primary outcome measures were the Depression Severity of Life and Life Satisfaction.
2
The main outcomes were the depression symptom score at baseline (the primary outcome) (the secondary outcome), depression symptoms scores at a time point of
23average in the two preceding year's months, and depression symptoms scores at the time of the
18month follow-up. The final outcome was the outcome of depressive symptom scores at the time of the
26time point of the primary analysis.
1
We used the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale ( HAM-D) Given the following section from a research paper, provide a detailed summary of the authors' key findings and conclusions. 
                        Focus on the main results, implications, and conclusions. Be specific and include any quantitative results if present.
                        
                        Section: glossary
                        Content:
                        on previous factor analytic re-
search,24we created 4 subscores: depression (4 items), anxiety (3
items), insomnia (3 items), and somatic complaint (3 items).
Data analysis. We analyzed change in depression scores using
generalized estimating equation models27with a logit-link func-
tion of the proportion of depressive symptoms endorsed andbinomial error structure. The analyses of the incident AD groupestimated annual rate of change in depression score separatelybefore and after the diagnosis of AD. Additional models sepa-rately tested whether race, sex, age, or education modifiedchange before or after the diagnosis and analyzed depression sub-scores. In analyses of the group with annual follow-up, thosewith no cognitive impairment formed a reference group that wascontrasted with MCI and AD groups. The models included aterm for time in years since baseline, indicators for MCI and AD,and the interactions of the indicators with time. The initial anal-ysis used the Hamilton Depression Rat
                               The first analysis included the covariance matrix of the initial AD group (1, 1, 1), which was used to
encompass and calculate the average change in the mean score of the initial AD group for the entire follow-up. The covariance matrix was used to predict the cumulative change in the mean score of the initial AD group for the entire follow-up. We used the linear regression model to adjust for the potential for a single-factor model to produce the effect of the initial AD group on the change in the mean score of the AD group. The model did not include covariates that did not change in the original AD group. To examine the potential for an outcome that did change, we used regression models to adjust for the effects of race, sex, education, and age. The results of this analysis were also analyzed using the regression model with the covariance matrix of the initial AD group and the covariance matrix of the AD group. Given the following section from a research paper, provide a detailed summary of the authors' key findings and conclusions. 
                        Focus on the main results, implications, and conclusions. Be specific and include any quantitative results if present.
                        
                        Section: glossary
                        Content:
                        ing Scale score as theoutcome; subsequent analyses tested for interactions with demo-graphic variables and used Hamilton Depression Rating Scalesubscores as outcomes. All models controlled for age, sex, race,and education. Given the following section from a research paper, provide a detailed summary of the authors' key findings and conclusions. 
                        Focus on the main results, implications, and conclusions. Be specific and include any quantitative results if present.
                        
                        Section: results
                        Content:
                        Self-report of depressive symptoms. Initial
analyses focused on a group of 357 individuals whodeveloped AD during the course of the study. At thetime of diagnosis, they had a mean age of 82.5 years(SD 5.7) and a mean of 12.0 years of education (SD3.5), 60.5% were women, and 59.6% were AfricanAmerican. They had a mean Mini-Mental State Ex-amination score of 20.4 (SD 5.2), indicative of milddementia. They had participated in the study for amean of 8 to 9 years.
22 Neurology 75 July 6, 2010
At the time of diagnosis, CES-D scores were pos-
itively skewed, ranging from 0 to 10 (median 1.0;interquartile range 3.0). To analyze change in thesescores, we constructed a generalized estimating equa-tion model that allowed rate of change to vary beforeand after the diagnosis of incident AD. This and allsubsequent models controlled for age, sex, race, andeducation. In the initial analysis, scores increasedduring a mean of 6.2 years of observation before thediagnosis of AD (estimate /H110050.04, SE /
                            
Laser Poisson Models 50 Mar. 2009
Predicting the relative risks of AD onset and treatment of AD was a common question in the literature. The aim of the present study is to estimate a proxy for risk of AD onset and treatment of AD. The present data were obtained from the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI)-National Institute of Mental Health (NAMI)–National Institute of Mental Health–National Center for Research on Aging and Adolescence (NICAHAD) Patient-Centered Outcomes Survey (PANES-ER (PANES-ER) and PANES-ER-Q) and were analyzed by taking the PANES-ER-Q (PANES-ER-Q) and PANES-ER-Q (PANES-ER-Q) data sets and testing for linear trend. The PANES-ER-Q data set was considered to be representative of the entire N Given the following section from a research paper, provide a detailed summary of the authors' key findings and conclusions. 
                        Focus on the main results, implications, and conclusions. Be specific and include any quantitative results if present.
                        
                        Section: results
                        Content:
                        H110050.01, p/H11005
0.004) and showed no change during a mean of 2.4years of observation after the diagnosis (estimate /H11005
/H110020.00, SE /H110050.02, p/H110050.913). Figure 1 shows the
9-year path of change in CES-D score predicted for atypical participant who was diagnosed with AD atyear 6, expressed in raw score units. Depressivesymptoms increased prior to dementia onset, butonly at a rate of approximately 0.04 unit per year, anincrease of about 1 symptom per 25 years.
Because little is known about depression and AD
in different racial subgroups, we repeated the initialanalysis with terms for the interactions of race withprediagnosis time and postdiagnosis time. Neitherinteraction was significant. In subsequent analyses,there was no evidence that sex, age, or educationmodified the trajectory of depressive symptoms be-fore or after AD was diagnosed.
To determine whether some aspects of depression
were selectively affected, we repeated the initial modelusing depression subscores
                                 
H110050.01, p/H11005
0.004) and showed no change during a mean of 2.4years of observation after the diagnosis (estimate /H11005/H110020.00, SE /H110050.02, p/H110050.913).
Figure 1. View largeDownload slide The 7-year long path of change in CES-D score predicted for atypical participant who is diagnosed with AD atyear 6, expressed in raw score units. Depressivesymptoms increased prior to dementia onset, butonly at a rate of approximately 0.04 unit per year, anincrease of about 1 symptom per 25 years.
Because little is known about depression and AD

in different racial subgroups, we repeated the initialanalysis with terms for the interactions of race withprediagnosis time and postdiagnosis time. Neitherinteraction was significant. In subsequent Given the following section from a research paper, provide a detailed summary of the authors' key findings and conclusions. 
                        Focus on the main results, implications, and conclusions. Be specific and include any quantitative results if present.
                        
                        Section: results
                        Content:
                         instead of the total score (ta-ble 1). In these analyses, report of depressed affect in-creased slightly before dementia onset but not after it;report of positive affect decreased slightly before and
after dementia onset; and no change was reported insomatic or interpersonal depressive symptoms.
Informant report of depressive symptoms. Dementia
in AD appears to reduce the accuracy of self-reportabout depression even with scales that minimize re-spondent burden.
14Because of this potential bias, we
conducted additional analyses of change in depres-sive symptoms ascertained through annual informantreport in a subgroup of 340 participants followed fora mean of 3.0 years (SD 1.7, range 0.8–8.7). At thebaseline of the substudy, 107 had AD, 81 had itsprecursor, MCI, and 152 had no cognitive impair-ment. As shown by the Mini-Mental State Examina-tion scores in table 2, dementia in the AD group waspredominantly mild.
At baseline, scores on the Hamilton Depression
Rating Scale were positively Given the following section from a research paper, provide a detailed summary of the authors' key findings and conclusions. 
                        Focus on the main results, implications, and conclusions. Be specific and include any quantitative results if present.
                        
                        Section: results
                        Content:
                        skewed, ranging from 0to 35 (median 2; interquartile range 6), with highervalues indicating more depression. In a generalizedestimating equation model (table 3), persons withAD, but not those with MCI, had higher baselineHamilton scores than the no cognitive impairmentgroup. However, Hamilton scores did not changeduring follow-up in any of the groups, as shown bythe terms for time, MCI /H11003time, and AD /H11003time in
table 3 and graphically in figure 2. In separate subse-quent analyses, there was no evidence that race, sex,age, or education modified these findings.
To see if some depressive symptoms were selec-
tively affected, we repeated the original analysis withspecific Hamilton Depression Rating Scale symptomdomain scores as outcomes in place of the total Ham-ilton score. In these analyses, there was no change inany of 3 subgroups (no cognitive impairment, MCI,Figure 1 Change in self-report of depressive symptoms
Predicted 9-year path of change in self-report of depressive symp
                                     
Figure 3. A subset of self-reported symptoms, as measured by Hamilton subscores
(1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, and 5.0) for depression in the same subgroups as those in the control group.
(1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, and 5.0) for depression in the same subgroups as those in the control group.
(1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, and 5.0) for depression in the same subgroups as those in the control group.
(1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, and 5.0) for depression in the same subgroups as those in the control group.
(1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, and 5. Given the following section from a research paper, provide a detailed summary of the authors' key findings and conclusions. 
                        Focus on the main results, implications, and conclusions. Be specific and include any quantitative results if present.
                        
                        Section: results
                        Content:
                        toms in a typical partici-
pant diagnosed with Alzheimer disease at year 6.Table 1 Change in depressive domains in
incident Alzheimer diseasea
Outcome and model term Estimate SE p
Depressed affect
Prediagnosis time 0.05 0.02 0.008
Postdiagnosis time /H110020.03 0.04 0.477
Positive affect
Prediagnosis time 0.08 0.03 0.010
Postdiagnosis time 0.10 0.04 0.016
Somatic complaints
Prediagnosis time 0.02 0.01 0.140
Postdiagnosis time /H110020.03 0.03 0.207
Interpersonal problems
Prediagnosis time 0.07 0.04 0.077
Postdiagnosis time /H110020.08 0.06 0.195
aFrom separate generalized estimating equation models
adjusted for age, sex, race, and education.
Neurology 75 July 6, 2010 23
AD) on any of the 4 domain scores (depression, anx-
iety, insomnia, somatic complaint).
DISCUSSION In a biracial urban population, we
characterized change in depressive symptoms in olderpersons as they developed AD and the disease pro-gressed. There was a barely perceptible increase insymptoms before the diagnosis and e Given the following section from a research paper, provide a detailed summary of the authors' key findings and conclusions. 
                        Focus on the main results, implications, and conclusions. Be specific and include any quantitative results if present.
                        
                        Section: results
                        Content:
                        ven less changeafter it, with comparable results in African Americanand white subjects. The findings suggest that AD haslittle systematic effect on depressive symptoms.
Knowledge about depressive symptoms in AD
comes mainly from cross-sectional studies. Thus, indefined populations, persons with MCI, dementia,or AD have generally been found to have more de-pressive symptoms than persons without cognitiveimpairment,
10,11but these data provide limited in-
sight into the basis of the association between depres-sion and dementia. We are aware of only 2 previousstudies that tracked depressive symptoms during thedevelopment of AD. One study of older Catholicclergy found no change in self-report of depressivesymptoms (10-item, binary response CES-D) duringa mean of 3.9 years before the incidence of AD and3.2 years before the incidence of MCI.
12The other
study, like the present one, took place in a definedpopulation and found an increase in self-report ofdepressive symptoms prior to dementia 
                              
13The authors stated that this study did not demonstrate any effect of AD on depressive symptoms (which is a clear indication of a lack of effect).
We also observed that changes in self-report of depression during the first three years of adulthood could be explained by a difference in the level of educational attainment between the groups.
14However, a recent study shows that AD has no effect on depression symptoms in children and adolescents. The authors of this study found that a reduction in self-report of depression with age was associated with a modest increase in self-report of depressive symptoms in the first year of life.
15The authors also noted that the association of depression with self-reported depression was not statistically significant in these two studies.
16The authors reported that the association of depression with measures of self-reported depression was weakly significant in the two studies, but this was not significant in this study.
17The authors concluded that
"These findings provide Given the following section from a research paper, provide a detailed summary of the authors' key findings and conclusions. 
                        Focus on the main results, implications, and conclusions. Be specific and include any quantitative results if present.
                        
                        Section: results
                        Content:
                        onset.
13Dur-
ing up to 14 years of observation, there was a meanincrease of about 3 points on the original 20-itemversion of the CES-D, which has 4 response options(scored 0–3) and a 0–60 score range. This representsan increase of about 0.21 unit per year, which is0.4% of the scale range. By comparison, the averageannual increase before AD was diagnosed in thepresent study was 0.04 unit, which is also 0.4% ofthe scale range. Taken together, therefore, these 3studies are in substantial agreement in suggestingthat very little change in depressive symptoms occursprior to dementia onset in AD.
There has been little longitudinal research on de-
pressive symptoms following dementia incidence inAD. In the Religious Orders Study, there was noincrease in self-report of depressive symptoms duringa mean of 2.8 years of observation after AD inci-dence.
12The present results replicate and extend
those findings by showing virtually no change in de-pressive symptoms following dementia onset by in-fo
                              
1. This study has found no significant difference in severity between those who reported a diagnosis of dementia with and without AD or those who only reported
(1) a diagnosis of dementia with or without AD (n = 5) or
(2) a diagnosis of dementia without AD (n = 4).
2. There was a difference in the severity of symptoms in the Religious Orders Study (n = 5) after AD (mean = 1.7 units/year, range = 2–3 units/year, mean = 0.7–0.8 units/year, mean = 0.8–0.9 units/year) and among those who reported or did not report dementia.
3. The present results extend that finding by showing no significant difference in symptoms between those who reported or did not report a diagnosis of dementia with or without AD or those who only reported (1) a diagnosis of dementia with or without AD (n = 5 Given the following section from a research paper, provide a detailed summary of the authors' key findings and conclusions. 
                        Focus on the main results, implications, and conclusions. Be specific and include any quantitative results if present.
                        
                        Section: results
                        Content:
                        rmant report or self-report in either AfricanAmerican or white subjects.
These data beg the question of why an illness as
devastating as AD has so little impact on depressivesymptoms. That depressive symptoms do not appearto systematically increase in old age
28,29indicates that
chronic illness does not invariably depress mood. Inaddition, as AD develops, poor memory and im-paired executive control are likely to disrupt the con-tinuity of mood states and their ability to regulatebehavior. That is, incipient AD may disrupt depres-sive behavior in somewhat the same way that it dis-rupts more adaptive functions. Consistent with thisidea, longitudinal studies of patients with AD identi-fied in medical settings and followed longer than thepresent study suggest that depressive symptoms mayeventually decrease in the disease.
30,31
The relation of depression to the pathologic fea-
tures of AD has been difficult to establish. In a smallstudy of persons without dementia, depression wasassociated
                                    
In a large, cross-sectional study of the population of
33,34 patients with AD, depression was associated with, or strongly correlated with, the
35 most common symptoms of AD. Depression was
37 the most frequent and common adverse event reported in the study. In-
38 the longitudinal study, a significant correlation between depression and
39 symptoms of AD was found, and in the cross-sectional study, the relationship was
40 even stronger. In addition, the effects of depression on mood.
41 The authors of the cross-sectional study reported that depression was
42 more prevalent in the elderly than in younger subjects.
43 These findings support the hypothesis that depression
43 may have an impact on mood. In the cross-sectional study, depression in the
44 population (as measured by the DSM-IV criteria) was found to be
45 more common in the younger group than in the older group Given the following section from a research paper, provide a detailed summary of the authors' key findings and conclusions. 
                        Focus on the main results, implications, and conclusions. Be specific and include any quantitative results if present.
                        
                        Section: results
                        Content:
                         with elevated cortical uptake of PittsburghCompound B, suggesting elevated
/H9252-amyloid.32In
persons with AD, a history of depression has beenassociated with relatively higher levels of AD patho-logic lesions.
33,34However, in 2 large clinical–patho-
logic studies of persons with and without dementia,level of depressive symptoms in the last years of lifewas not related to the pathologic hallmarks of AD orother common dementias.
35,36Thus, although AD37
and cerebrovascular disease38may contribute to late-
life depression, current data suggest that at least someTable 2 Information at time of diagnosis on population subgroups with annual
follow-up after diagnosisa
CharacteristicNo cognitive
impairment(n/H11549152)Mild cognitive
impairment(n/H1154981)Alzheimer
disease(n/H11549107)
Age, y 80.6 (5.3) 81.8 (5.6) 81.4 (5.9)
Education, y 12.8 (3.5) 11.7 (3.3) 11.4 (3.9)
Women, % 59.9 60.5 56.1
African American, % 59.2 66.7 70.1
MMSE score 28.0 (1.9) 27.3 (2.5) 24.3 (5.1)
HDRS score 3.3 (5.2)
                          
39,40A 10.3 (1.6)
A 10.1 (1.4)
A 10.0 (1.4)
40,41A 10.6 (1.5)
A 10.3 (1.5)
A 10.0 (1.4)
42A 10.2 (1.3)
A 10.1 (1.5)
43A 10.3 (1.4)
44A 10.2 (1.3)
Hospitalization score of 6.4 (1.4)
45A 10.1 (1.4)
Hospitalization score of 10.0 (1.4)
46A 10.0 (1.4)
Hospitalization score of 0.3 (0.3)
47A 10.0 (1.4)
48A 10.0 (1.4)
Hospital Given the following section from a research paper, provide a detailed summary of the authors' key findings and conclusions. 
                        Focus on the main results, implications, and conclusions. Be specific and include any quantitative results if present.
                        
                        Section: results
                        Content:
                         4.9 (6.9) 5.4 (5.9)
Postdiagnosis observation, y 3.2 (1.8) 2.8 (1.6) 2.8 (1.5)
Abbreviations: HDRS /H11005Hamilton Depression Rating Scale; MMSE /H11005Mini-Mental State
Examination.
aValues are mean (SD) unless otherwise indicated.
Table 3 Change in informant report of depressive
symptoms in mild cognitive impairmentand Alzheimer disease
a
Model term Estimate SE p
Time /H110020.00 0.04 0.933
MCI 0.37 0.20 0.069
MCI/H11547time /H110020.01 0.04 0.897
AD 0.62 0.18 /H110210.001
AD/H11547time /H110020.02 0.05 0.682
Abbreviations: AD /H11005Alzheimer disease; MCI /H11005mild cogni-
tive impairment.
aFrom a generalized estimating equation model adjusted
for age, sex, race, and education.
24 Neurology 75 July 6, 2010
of the association between depressive symptoms and
subsequent cognitive dysfunction1-9reflects factors
other than the pathologic lesions traditionally linkedwith late-life dementia. Consistent with this idea, de-pressive symptoms have been associated with re-duced density of den
                                
A study of the association between schizophrenia and the
predictors of subsequent cognitive impairment has shown that the
prostaglandins SIRT1 and MPS-5 were associated with
recovery after long-term treatment with an
alzheimer's disease. A similar finding in schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease has also been
interpreted as a causal relationship. In the present study, the authors
attempted to explain the association between schizophrenia and the
recovery of cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's disease by assessing
recovery in the first 1 year after treatment was initiated. This was
suggested by a review of longitudinal studies of schizophrenia and
recovery. In the present study, a meta-analysis of the association between schizophrenia
and the residuals of cognitive impairment as measured by
recovery included a large cross-sectional study of patients with
recovery, and a meta-analysis of Given the following section from a research paper, provide a detailed summary of the authors' key findings and conclusions. 
                        Focus on the main results, implications, and conclusions. Be specific and include any quantitative results if present.
                        
                        Section: results
                        Content:
                        drites and spines in the CA3region of the hippocampus,
39a characteristic finding
in animal models of chronic stress.40Understanding
the neurobiologic pathways linking depressive symp-toms to cognitive impairment could suggest novelstrategies for delaying symptom onset in dementia.
This study has several strengths. Participants were
sampled from a defined population, making it likelythat a broad spectrum of incident disease was repre-sented and that the findings are generalizable. Diag-noses of MCI, dementia, and AD were based on auniform clinical evaluation and widely used criteriaapplied by an experienced physician, reducing thelikelihood of diagnostic error. The availability of psy-chometrically established measures of depressivesymptoms by both self and informant report plus thehigh rate of follow-up participation enhanced ourability to identify even subtle nonlinear changes indepression. An important limitation is that dementiaseverity in the subjects with incident AD was mostlymi
                            
Dana-Majewski et al.. "The Risk of Alzheimer's, the Alzheimer's Disease Association and the Diagnosis of the DSM-IV-TR, and the Clinical and Translational Approaches to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 3rd Edition (DSM-IV-TR). Journal of the American Psychiatric Association, April 2010.
Dana-Majewski et al.. "The Risk of Alzheimer's, the Alzheimer's Disease Association and the Diagnosis of the DSM-IV-TR, and the Clinical and Translational Approaches to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 3rd Edition (DSM-IV-TR). Journal of the American Psychiatric Association, April 2010.
The role of stress in the etiology and pathogenesis of AD and dementia, and the role of depression in the etiology and pathogenesis of AD and dementia, are also important issues of future research.
The Given the following section from a research paper, provide a detailed summary of the authors' key findings and conclusions. 
                        Focus on the main results, implications, and conclusions. Be specific and include any quantitative results if present.
                        
                        Section: results
                        Content:
                        ld to moderate so that these results do not rule outchange in depressive symptoms during the end stagesof the disease.
                                                      ld to moderate so that these results do not rule outchange in depressive symptoms during the end stagesof the disease.
                                           ld to moderate so that these results do not rule outchange in depressive symptoms during the end stagesof the disease. Given the following section from a research paper, provide a detailed summary of the authors' key findings and conclusions. 
                        Focus on the main results, implications, and conclusions. Be specific and include any quantitative results if present.
                        
                        Section: acknowledgment
                        Content:
                        The authors thank the residents of Morgan Park, Washington Heights,
and Beverly who participated in the study. They also thank Ann MarieLane for community development and oversight of project coordination;Michelle Bos, Holly Hadden, Flavio LaMorticella, and Jennifer Tarpey
for coordination of the study; Todd Beck for analytic programming; andthe staff of the Rush Institute for Healthy Aging.
                                 
"Efficient and comprehensive assessment of the impact of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) on health care access and quality is critical to the health care system and will continue to be the goal of this report."
--Michael V. Eubanks, MD, MPH, MBA, and director of the M.D. (Medical Education) Program at the University of New South Wales School of Medicine, Sydney, Australia; and author:
--"This study examines the impact of the ACA on the health care system, including the provision of health insurance on the individual, family, and community level. The report highlights the current state of health care coverage, including the ACA and its impact on the health system.
The report also shows that the ACA is largely ineffective in preventing access to health care for all Americans. This means that the ACA is often ineffective as a health care provider, with some states providing coverage for low-income, uninsured, and